Many years ago, I started working at a firm,
and I helped a sister to get a position
at the same firm.
As time went on, I may have come
to the wrong conclusion, but I felt
that this sister wanted to be in charge.
I didn’t feel very happy about it.
A few months later,
I was retrenched from work.
I felt very hurt.
My mother always told me
to be the “lesser one”
and just to let things go.
So I kept quiet, and I left the firm.
Because of certain circumstances,
we changed congregations,
so we didn’t see each other anymore.
During those years, at the meetings
or reading the Bible,
we were regularly reminded to be forgiving.
It felt to me like a stab in my heart
because I knew we had to apply this counsel.
Being at the convention, every time,
made me a bit nervous
because I basically had to prepare myself.
Should I bump into her,
how was I going to handle it?
It did ruin the spiritual atmosphere
of the convention.
Soon after my mother passed away,
we had our regional convention.
I was very emotional.
I saw this sister standing there,
and I wondered to myself,
‘What is going to happen now?’
She came up to me;
she gave me a hug and a small present.
That particular day,
I definitely felt relieved and I felt
that I could now make peace.
If both of us had applied earlier
the advice given at Colossians 3:13
by being forgiving,
neither of us
would have had to carry
this emotional burden for so many years.
Now I am very happy to say,
Mona and I are good friends today.
We serve together in the same congregation
as elders, and the relationship
that I have today
with Luis is that we’re friends.
But when we transferred it to the workplace,
that beautiful friendship began to fade.
Well, as a builder,
I’m old-school and used to being in charge.
Perhaps I was too proud.
But somebody couldn’t come and tell me
how to do certain things.
Since I was the crew leader,
I said right from the start:
“So, what is he doing here?
Does he have any right
to an opinion about this?”
So I made sure to push
the brother aside completely.
I can remember that when I entered
the Kingdom Hall through one door
and I saw Brother Luis,
I would look
for any possible excuse to avoid him.
I wouldn’t even say hello.
Neither of us said hello.
For me, the internal battle
between the fleshly-minded person
and the spiritual person
was a very tough battle.
It was like that for several years.
And now I think, ‘I wasted time.’
Something that would have helped me
to maintain peace and unity
with my brother would have been
to be obedient to what Jehovah says,
to what the Bible says,
and to what we hear at the meetings.
Sadly, I wasn’t obedient.
The lesson that I have learned from this
is that Jehovah is always right.
In the exact moment when something happens,
we should immediately act.
Carlos Henry himself was the one
that then stopped me and told me,
“We can’t keep going on like this.”
He took a very important step
so that we could sort things out.
To be happy, you have to apply
the principles you find in God’s Word.
The words at Romans 14:19
encourage us
to “pursue the things making for peace.”
What I would’ve done differently
is that I wouldn’t have let time go by.
Instead, I should have sought out the brother
more promptly
and restored that friendship again.
Although it’s true
that you can’t recover time,
you can recover a brother.
My relationship, once again,
with Luis is that we are friends,
and he’s a true friend.